feat: add upload status page to docs (#1211)
web3-storage/web3.storage: packages/docs/docs/how-tos/get-status.md

---
title: Getting upload status
---

The Web3.Storage service provides a few ways to check on the status of an upload.

On the [Account page](https://web3.storage/account) of the Web3.Storage site, you can see a list of files that you've uploaded to Web3.Storage.

![Screenshot of Web3.Storage account page, showing a table of uploaded files](./images/account-page-files.png)

> The table on the account page has two columns related to the current status of the data storage process, [Status](#pin-status) and [Storage Providers](#storage-providers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table on the account page has two columns related to the current status of the data storage process, [Status](#status) and [Storage Providers](#storage-providers).
```

> The information in the account page file list is also available using the [JavaScript client's `check` method][client-js-check], and via the [HTTP API][client-http] by sending a `GET` request to the `/check/{cid}` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: also add a note about the w3 cli

> The information in the account page file list is also available using the [JavaScript client's `check` method][client-js-check], and via the [HTTP API][client-http] by sending a `GET` request to the `/check/{cid}` endpoint.

Author: I'm not sure this change is needed?

> The information in the account page file list is also available using the [JavaScript client's `check` method][client-js-check], and via the [HTTP API][client-http] by sending a `GET` request to the `/check/{cid}` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: > It should be check shouldn't it?

What makes you think that?

> The information in the account page file list is also available using the [JavaScript client's `check` method][client-js-check], and via the [HTTP API][client-http] by sending a `GET` request to the `/check/{cid}` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: let me double check (pun intended)

> The information in the account page file list is also available using the [JavaScript client's `check` method][client-js-check], and via the [HTTP API][client-http] by sending a `GET` request to the `/check/{cid}` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: here is the interface for the js client
https://github.com/web3-storage/web3.storage/blob/78ef3c2a7d0c810a1dc816072e88acbfacd5e742/packages/client/src/lib/interface.ts#L28-L75

`status` is the one to use for web3.storage. I believe nft.storage has as check method. They have a similar purpose, but different response shapes.

https://github.com/web3-storage/web3.storage/blob/78ef3c2a7d0c810a1dc816072e88acbfacd5e742/packages/client/src/lib/interface.ts#L60

> The information in the account page file list is also available using the [JavaScript client's `check` method][client-js-check], and via the [HTTP API][client-http] by sending a `GET` request to the `/check/{cid}` endpoint.

Author: Apologies for my confusion! Now corrected.

## Status

> When you upload data to Web3.Storage, it is ["pinned"][ipfs-docs-pinning] to several [IPFS clusters][ipfs-cluster], which are groups of machines that coordinate to provide content-addressed data to the [IPFS](https://ipfs.io) peer-to-peer network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you upload data to Web3.Storage, it is ["pinned"][ipfs-docs-pinning] to several nodes in an [IPFS Cluster][ipfs-cluster]. An IPFS Cluster is a group of machines that coordinate to provide content-addressed data to the [IPFS](https://ipfs.io) peer-to-peer network.
```

Author: Ok done.

Note that you can [retrieve your data using IPFS][howto-retrieve] even while the status is `Queuing`. You can verify this by retrieving your data from an HTTP gateway. If you've uploaded a directory, try retrieving a sample of the files within the directory.

A `Pinned` status means that the cluster has successfully pinned the data.

A `Failed` status indicates that an operation failed while attempting to pin the data. Note that a `Failed` status may be temporary, as the cluster will continually retry `Failed` pins in the background and will update the status to `Pinned` if a retry attempt is successful.

In addition to automatic retries by the cluster, a `Failed` pin will change to `Pinned` if the same data is uploaded successfully in a subsequent request. As long as the CID is the same for both uploads, the original upload's status will be marked as `Pinned` after a small delay.

There are several reasons why an upload may end up in the `Failed` state.

If you are able to [retrieve the data from IPFS][howto-retrieve], the cluster is likely waiting to retry a previous attempt and will soon pin the data.

> If you uploaded your data directly to the Web3.Storage service using a [client library][client-js], [the HTTP API][client-http], or the [Upload files button on the website account page][upload-page], a `Failed` status may indicate that one or more chunks of data was not recieved by the service. This may happen when uploading large files or directories containing many files and may be resolved by retrying the upload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you uploaded your data directly to the Web3.Storage service using a [client library][client-js], [the HTTP API][client-http], or the [Upload files button on the website account page][upload-page], a `Failed` status may indicate that one or more chunks of data was not received by the service. This may happen when uploading large files or directories containing many files and may be resolved by retrying the upload.
```

Once storage deals have been proposed, the `deals` array will contain JSON objects describing each deal. Each object has a `status` field, which will have a value of `"queued"` when the deal is pending. When the deal has been confirmed and published to the Filecoin blockchain, the `status` field will have a value of `"active"`.

Here's an example JSON object that describes an active storage deal:

```json
{
    "status": "active",
    "lastChanged": "2022-03-13T04:17:47.969874+00:00",
    "chainDealID": 4486352,
    "datamodelSelector": "Links/197/Hash/Links/22/Hash/Links/0/Hash",
    "statusText": "containing sector active as of 2022-03-13 09:18:00 at epoch 1628556",
    "dealActivation": "2022-03-14T13:19:00+00:00",
    "dealExpiration": "2023-08-06T13:19:00+00:00",
    "miner": "f0840770",
    "pieceCid": "baga6ea4seaqcfs2mrjyaqnwgdheb4ny76i6yaeeklcylqijaha3kpcwmutnb6ma",
    "batchRootCid": "bafybeig2qsdu6nfmmaxlpnrpcz63jzyb6bzc4ngllv4mcj7q66ei4rq72y"

> }

Reviewer: This is the NFT.Storage deal schema please check https://api.web3.storage/status/bafybeiauyddeo2axgargy56kwxirquxaxso3nobtjtjvoqu552oqciudrm and fix.

Reviewer: It would be great to define these fields: https://github.com/web3-storage/web3.storage/blob/cd1889177abe20d7fd0fa981e2c419a79725b64d/packages/client/src/lib/interface.ts#L193-L230

Author: Corrected the JSON example and added a schema table.
